[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Rule feature changes from May 2026 (#6687)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/kibana-alerting-experimental/rules/create-rule-from-rule-builder.md

  serverless: experimental
products:
  - id: kibana

> description: "Create a rule in the {{alerting-v2-system}}: the three creation paths, when to use each, and how the Threshold Alert builder works."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Create a rule in the experimental alerting system."
```
